THE MALL IN PARAMUS, NEW JERSEY.
>> NO ONE AMAZINGLY IS INJURED
IN THIS HORRIFYING EVENT THAT
BROKE OUT OVER NIGHT, THE
GUNMAN, A 20-YEAR-OLD IS DEAD AT
THIS HOUR.
ABSOLUTE CHAOS BROKE OUT AT THE
MALL BEHIND ME WITHIN A GUNMAN
ENTERED JUST AFTER 9:00 P.M.
OVER 400 PEOPLE LOCKED INSIDE
STORES FOR HOURS.
BUT EVENTUALLY, THEY GOT OUT
SAFELY.
CHAOS AT A SHOPPING CENTER IN
NEW JERSEY OVERNIGHT.
>> WE HEARD FOUR GUNSHOTS.
AND EVERYBODY WAS SCARED.
EVERYBODY WAS PANICKED.
WE TOOK EVERYBODY, WE WENT IN
THE BACK OF THE STORE, LOCKED
OURSELVES IN WITH 13 PEOPLE IN
TOTAL, INCLUDING ME.
>> Reporter: HUNDREDS OF POLICE,
S.W.A.T. AND EMERGENCY TEAMS
SWARMED THE SOUTHWESTFIELD
GARDEN STATE PLAZA MALL IN
SEARCH OF A GUNMAN WHO
AUTHORITIES BELIEVED FIRED SIX
ROUNDS JUST BEFORE CLOSING TIME.
THE SUSPECTED GUNMAN,
20-YEAR-OLD RICHARD SHOOP WAS
DISCOVERED DEAD JUST AFTER 3:00
A.M., HIS BODY FOUND LYING IN A
REMOTE AREA OF THE MALL.
AUTHORITIES SAY HE HAD A
SELF-INFLICTED GUNSHOT WOUND.
>> ORIGINALLY FROM WASHINGTON
TOWNSHIP, NEW JERSEY, NOW LIVING
IN TEANECK, NEW JERSEY.
HE'S 20 YEARS OLD.
HIS BODY WAS DISCOVERED JUST
ABOUT AN HOUR AGO WITH A
SELF-INFLICTED GUNSHOT WOUND TO
THE HEAD AREA.
HE HIMSELF WENT TO THE AREA
WHERE HE DID THIS.
IT WAS A DIFFICULT AREA OF THE
MALL, BEHIND SOME CONSTRUCTION.
>> Reporter: NO ONE ELSE WAS
INJURED IN THE SHOOTING.
SURVEILLANCE INDIVIVIDEO SHOWED
GUNMAN AIMED AT SECURITY
CAMERAS.
>> THE VISOR ON THE MEL HELMET
LIFTED UP.
HE WAS A WHILE MALE.
HE WASN'T AIMING AT ANYTHING.
HE HAD THE GUN IN HIS HAND
AIMLESSLY AND HE WAS WALKING
PAST THE APPLE STORE.
HE WASN'T YELLING.
HE DIDN'T SEEM ANGERED.
HE WAS JUST WALKING.
>> Reporter: POLICE SAY SHOOP
WAS CARRYING A RIFLE MODIFIED TO
LOOK LIKE AN AK-47, STOLEN FROM
HIS BROTHER.
>> IT WOULD LOOK LIKE AN AK-47
BUT IT IS NOT AN AK-47.
IT'S WHERE YOU TAKE THE HANDGUN
AND MODIFY IT TO MAKE IT LOOK
LIKE SOMETHING IT IS NOT.
BUT IT IS A LAWFUL GUN OWNED BY
THE BROTHER.
>> Reporter: POLICE SAY SHOOP
HAS NO HISTORY OF MENTAL ILLNESS
BUT SAY HE ABUSED DRUGS.
>> WE DO BELIEVE THAT THE MAIN
MOTIVE FOR WHAT HE DID TONIGHT
WAS SUICIDE, WHETHER
SELF-INFLICTED OR GOD FORBID
SUICIDE BY COP WHICH NO ONE EVER
WANTS TO SEE.
IT LOOKED LIKE THAT WAS HIS
MOTIVE.
>> Reporter: SO THE QUESTION IS
AT THIS HOUR, CHRIS, WHAT COULD
HAVE MOTIVATED THIS 20-YEAR-OLD
TO DO THIS?
POLICE DID TELL US THAT THEY
FOUND A NOTE INSIDE THE HOME
WHERE HE WAS LIVING.
THEY DIDN'T INDICATE, AS SOME
REPORTS HAVE SAID, THAT IT WAS A
SUICIDE NOTE.
IT WAS A NOTE THAT LED HIM TO
BELIEVE HE WOULD DO SOMETHING
LIKE THIS.
WE'LL LEARN MORE IN THE COMING
DAYS ON THAT.
I CAN ALSO TELL YOU, IT'S VERY
IMPORTANT TO NOTE, POLICE SAY HE
HAD THE OPPORTUNITY TO KILL
OTHER PEOPLE IN THE MALL AND HE
CHOSE NOT TO.
THAT IS WHY THEY SAY THE MAIN
MOTIVE HERE WAS SUICIDE.
I CAN ALSO TELL YOU, POLICE WERE
TIPPED OFF BY A FAMILY MEMBER OF
THE